{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-269\slmult0\qc\cf1\lang1033\expndtw-4\b\dn6\f0\fs44\par
Eurema's Dam\b0\fs28\par
\expndtw7\up0 R. A. LAFFERTY\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-269\slmult0\par
\par
\cf1\expndtw-4\fs20 Eccentric, outrageous, and packed with bizarre characters and incidents, R. A. Lafferty's \expndtw-3 stylistically unconventional short stories are as much a part of the oral tall tale tradition as they are fantasy and science fiction. Lafferty began publishing fiction in the 1960s and was \expndtw-4 a prominent figure in science fiction's iconoclastic New Wave, where his gnomic, challeng\-ing variations on standard science fiction and fantasy themes bridged the gap between \expndtw-6 speculative and mainstream fiction. A stylistic maverick, Lafferty fills his stories with puns and \expndtw-4 wordplay that create incongruous associations between their disparate elements. The style \expndtw-6 of his narratives is similarly adventurous and includes mixtures of sermons, riddles, doggerel, \expndtw-4 epigrams, imagined reference works, and textbook treatises. He has written on subjects ranging from supernatural conspiracy to evil adolescents, celestial revolutionaries, Native American lore, utopia, demons, and carnal love. In his novels he is fond of creating modern \expndtw-5 corollaries for classic myths and legends. \i Space Chantey \i0 works the basic story of Homer's \expndtw-4\i Odyssey \i0 into a wild space opera. In the Argos cycle, which includes \i Archipelago, The Devil Is Dead, \i0 and \i Episodes of the Argo, \i0 Jason and the Argonauts are reincarnated as members of a former World War II battle unit. In \i Past Master, \i0 Sir Thomas More is transported in time and space to the planet Astrobe, where he falls afoul of political intrigue and suffers his \expndtw-6 seemingly inescapable martyr's death. Lafferty's preoccupation with religious archetypes and \expndtw-3 the battle (and sometimes collusion) between Good and Evil gives much of his writing a \expndtw-2 mythic character. His short fiction has been collected in \i Nine Hundred Grandmothers, \expndtw-7 Strange Doings, Does Anyone Else Have Something Further to Add? \i0 and numerous other \expndtw-5 collections. His novels include \i The Reefs of Earth, Fourth Mansions, The Annals of Klepsis, \i0 and \i Arrive at Easterwine. \i0 He has also written a volume of essays on fantastic literature, \i It's Down the Slippery Cellar Stairs. \i0 Interviews with him have been collected in \i Cranky Old Man \expndtw-8 from Tulsa.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\fs28\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sl-269\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\scaps He was about \scaps0 the last of them.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-269\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 What? The last of the great individualists? The last of the true creative geniuses \expndtw2 of the century? The last of the sheer precursors?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 No. No. He was the last of the dolts.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Kids were being born smarter all the time when he came along, and they would \expndtw4 be so forever more. He was about the last dumb kid ever born.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 Even his mother had to admit that Albert was a slow child. What else can you \expndtw0 call a boy who doesn't begin to talk till he is four years old, who won't learn to handle \expndtw1 a spoon till he is six, who can't operate a doorknob till he is eight? What else can you \expndtw4 say about one who put his shoes on the wrong feet and walked in pain? And who \expndtw3 had to be told to close his mouth after yawning?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Some things would always be beyond him\emdash like whether it was the big hand or the little hand of the clock that told the hours. But this wasn't something serious. He \expndtw2 never did care what time it was.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 When, about the middle of his ninth year, Albert made a breakthrough at telling \expndtw3 his right hand from his left, he did it by the most ridiculous set of mnemonics ever put together. It had to do with the way a dog turns around before lying down, the \expndtw1 direction of whirlpools and whirlwinds, the side a cow is milked from and a horse is \expndtw2 mounted from, the direction of twist of oak and sycamore leaves, the maze patterns \expndtw1 of rock moss and of tree moss, the cleavage of limestone, the direction of a hawk's \expndtw0 wheeling, of a shrike's hunting, and of a snake's coiling (remembering that the moun\-\expndtw4 tain boomer is an exception, and that it isn't a true snake), the lay of cedar fronds \expndtw-1 and of balsam fronds, the twist of a hole dug by a skunk and by a badger (remembering \expndtw2 pungently that skunks sometimes use old badger holes). Well, Albert finally learned \expndtw1 to remember which was right and which was left, but an observant boy would have \expndtw3 learned his right hand from his left without all that nonsense.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Albert never learned to write a readable hand. To get by in school he cheated. \expndtw0 From a bicycle speedometer, a midget motor, tiny eccentric cams, and batteries stolen \expndtw2 from his grandfather's hearing aid, Albert made a machine to write for him. It was small as a doodlebug and fitted onto a pen or pencil so that Albert could conceal it with his fingers. It formed the letters beautifully as Albert had set the cams to follow \expndtw-2 a copybook model. He triggered the different letters with keys no bigger than whiskers. \expndtw4 Sure it was crooked, but what else can you do when you're too dumb to learn how \expndtw0 to write passably?\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Albert couldn't figure at all. He had to make another machine to figure for him. \expndtw1 It was a palm-of-the-hand thing that would add and subtract and multiply and divide. The next year when he was in the ninth grade they gave him algebra, and he had to \expndtw2 devise a flipper to go on the end of his gadget to work quadratic and simultaneous \expndtw3 equations. If it weren't for such cheating Albert wouldn't have gotten any marks at \expndtw0 all in school.\cf0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sl-269\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\scaps He had another \scaps0 difficulty when he came to his fifteenth year. People, that is an \expndtw2 understatement. There should be a stronger word than "difficulty" for it. Albert was \expndtw0 afraid of girls.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 What to do?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "I will build me a machine that is not afraid of girls," Albert said. He set to work \expndtw4 on it. He had it nearly finished when a thought came to him: "But no machine is \expndtw1 afraid of girls. How will this help me?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 His logic was at fault and analogy broke down. He did what he always did. He \expndtw0 cheated.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 He took the programming rollers out of an old player piano in the attic, found \expndtw-1 a gear case that would serve, used magnetized sheets instead of perforated music rolls, \expndtw2 fed a copy of \i Wormwood's Logic \i0 into the matrix, and he had a logic machine that would answer questions.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "What's the matter with me that I'm afraid of girls?" Albert asked his logic ma\-\expndtw-1 chine.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "Nothing the matter with you," the logic machine told him. "It's logical to be \expndtw2 afraid of girls. They seem pretty spooky to me too."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 "But what can I do about it?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 "Wait for time and circumstances. They sure are slow. Unless you want to \expndtw2 cheat\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 "Yes, yes, what then?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Build a machine that looks just like you, Albert, and talks just like you. Only \expndtw1 make it smarter than you are, and not bashful. And, ah, Albert, there's a special thing you'd better put into it in case things go wrong. I'll whisper it to you. It's dangerous."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 So Albert made Little Danny, a dummy who looked like him and talked like him, \expndtw2 only he was smarter and not bashful. He filled Little Danny with quips from \i Mad \expndtw3 Magazine \i0 and from \i Quip, \i0 and then they were set.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Albert and Little Danny went to call on Alice.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Why, he's wonderful," Alice said. "Why can't you be like that, Albert? Aren't you wonderful, Little Danny. Why do you have to be so stupid, Albert, when Little Danny is so wonderful?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 "I, uh, uh, I don't know," Albert said. "Uh, uh, uh."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "He sounds like a fish with the hiccups," Little Danny said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 "You do, Albert, really you do!" Alice screamed. "Why can't you say smart things \expndtw1 like Little Danny does, Albert? Why are you so stupid?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 This wasn't working out very well, but Albert kept on with it. He programmed \expndtw0 Little Danny to play the ukulele and to sing. He wished that he could program himself \expndtw-1 to do it. Alice loved everything about Little Danny, but she paid no attention to Albert. \expndtw3 And one day Albert had had enough.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Wha-wha-what do we need with this dummy?" Albert asked. "I just made him \expndtw4 to am-to amu-to to make you laugh. Let's go off and leave him."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4 "Go off with you, Albert?" Alice asked. "But you're so stupid. I tell you what.\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw-1 Let's you and me go off and leave Albert, Little Danny. We can have more fun without \expndtw3 him."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Who needs him?" Little Danny asked. "Get lost, buster."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Albert walked away from them. He was glad that he'd taken his logic machine's \expndtw2 advice as to the special thing to be built into Little Danny. Albert walked fifty steps. \expndtw4 A hundred.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 "Far enough," Albert said, and he pushed a button in his pocket.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 Nobody but Albert and his logic machine ever did know what that explosion was. \expndtw1 Tiny wheels out of Little Danny and small pieces of Alice rained down a little later, \expndtw4 but there weren't enough fragments for anyone to identify.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 Albert had learned one lesson from his logic machine: never make anything that \expndtw4 you can't unmake.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1 Well, Albert finally grew to be a man, in years at least. He would always have \expndtw2 something about him of a very awkward teen-ager. And yet he fought his own war \expndtw1 against those who were teen-agers in years, and he defeated them completely. There \expndtw0 was enmity between them forever. Albert hadn't been a very well-adjusted adolescent, \expndtw3 and he hated the memory of it. And nobody ever mistook him for an adjusted man.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 Albert was too awkward to earn a living at an honest trade. He was reduced to \expndtw1 peddling his little tricks and contrivances to shysters and promoters. But he did back \expndtw4 into a sort of fame, and he did become burdened with wealth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 He was too stupid to handle his own monetary affairs, but he built an actuary machine to do his investing and he became rich by accident. He built the damned \expndtw4 thing too good and he regretted it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 Albert became one of that furtive group that has saddled us with all the mean \expndtw3 things in our history. There was that Punic who couldn't learn the rich variety of \expndtw2 hieroglyphic characters and who devised the crippled short alphabet for wan-wits. \expndtw1 There was the nameless Arab who couldn't count beyond ten and who set up the ten-number system for babies and idiots. There was the double-Dutchman with his mov\-\expndtw-2 able type who drove fine copy out of the world. Albert was of their miserable company.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 Albert himself wasn't much good for anything. But he had in himself the low knack for making machines that were good at everything.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 His machines did a few things. You remember that anciently there was smog in \expndtw0 the cities. Oh, it could be drawn out of the air easily enough. All it took was a tickler. \expndtw3 Albert made a tickler machine. He would set it fresh every morning. It would clear \expndtw2 the air in a circle three hundred yards around his hovel and gather a little over a ton \expndtw0 of residue every twenty-four hours. This residue was rich in large polysyllabic mole\-\expndtw2 cules which one of his chemical machines could use.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "Why can't you clear all the air?" the people asked him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "This is as much of the stuff as Clarence Deoxyribonucleiconibus needs every \expndtw2 day," Albert said. That was the name of this particular chemical machine.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 "But we die of the smog," the people said. "Have mercy on us." \expndtw1 "Oh, all right," Albert said. He turned it over to one of his reduplicating machines to make as many copies as were necessary.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1 You \scaps remember that \scaps0 once there was a teen-ager problem? You remember when those \expndtw2 little buggers used to be mean? Albert got enough of them. There was something \expndtw4 ungainly about them that reminded him too much of himself. He made a teen-ager \expndtw2 of his own. It was rough. To the others it looked like one of themselves, the ring in the left ear, the dangling side-locks, the brass knucks and the long knife, the guitar \expndtw3 pluck to jab in an eye. But it was incomparably rougher than the human teen-agers. \expndtw-1 It terrorized all in the neighborhood and made them behave, and dress like real people. \expndtw3 And there was one thing about the teen-age machine that Albert made: it was made \expndtw2 of such polarized metal and glass that it was invisible except to teen-ager eyes.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 "Why is your neighborhood different?" the people asked Albert. "Why are there \expndtw2 such good and polite teen-agers in your neighborhood and such mean ones every\-\expndtw3 where else? It's as though something had spooked all those right around here."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Oh, I thought I was the only one who didn't like the regular kind," Albert said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Oh, no, no," the people answered him. "If there is anything at all you can do \expndtw6 about them\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 So Albert turned his mostly invisible teen-ager machine over to one of his re\-\expndtw2 duplicating machines to make as many copies as were necessary, and set one up in \expndtw3 every neighborhood. From that day till this the teen-agers have all been good and \expndtw4 polite and a little bit frightened. But there is no evidence of what keeps them that \expndtw2 way except an occasional eye dangling from the jab of an invisible guitar pluck.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-293\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4 So the two most pressing problems of the latter part of the twentieth century \expndtw3 were solved, but accidentally, and to the credit of no one.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sl-293\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 As \scaps the years \scaps0 went by, Albert felt his inferiority most when in the presence of his \expndtw1 own machines, particularly those in the form of men. Albert just hadn't their urbanity \expndtw3 or sparkle or wit. He was a clod beside them, and they made him feel it.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4 Why not? One of Albert's devices sat in the President's Cabinet. One of them \expndtw1 was on the High Council of World-Watchers that kept the peace everywhere. One of \expndtw2 them presided at Riches Unlimited, that private-public-international instrument that \expndtw1 guaranteed reasonable riches to everyone in the world. One of them was the guiding hand in the Health and Longevity Foundation which provided those things to every\-\expndtw4 one. Why should not such splendid and successful machines look down on their \expndtw3 shabby uncle who had made them?\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4 "I'm rich by a curious twist," Albert said to himself one day, "and honored \expndtw3 through a mistake in circumstance. But there isn't a man or a machine in the world\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 who is really my friend. A book here tells how to make friends, but I can't do it that \expndtw2 way. I'll make one my own way."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 So Albert set out to make a friend.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 He made Poor Charles, a machine as stupid and awkward and inept as himself.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Now I will have a companion," Albert said, but it didn't work. Add two zeros together and you still have zero. Poor Charles was too much like Albert to be good \expndtw1 for anything.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 Poor Charles! Unable to think, he made a\emdash (but wait a moleskin-gloved minute \expndtw3 here, Colonel, this isn't going to work at all)\emdash he made a machi\emdash (but isn't this the same blamed thing all over again?)\emdash he made a machine to think for him and to\emdash\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Hold it, hold it! That's enough. Poor Charles was the only machine that Albert \expndtw4 ever made that was dumb enough to do a thing like that.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 Well, whatever it was, the machine that Poor Charles made was in control of the \expndtw2 situation and of Poor Charles when Albert came onto them accidentally. The ma\-chine's machine, the device that Poor Charles had constructed to think for him, was lecturing Poor Charles in a humiliating way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Only the inept and deficient will invent," that damned machine's machine was droning. "The Greeks in their high period did not invent. They used neither adjunct \expndtw3 power nor instrumentation. They used, as intelligent men or machines will always \expndtw2 use, slaves. They did not descend to gadgets. They, who did the difficult with ease, \expndtw1 did not seek the easier way.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "But the incompetent will invent. The insufficient will invent. The depraved will \expndtw1 invent. And knaves will invent."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Albert, in a seldom fit of anger, killed them both. But he knew that the machine \expndtw4 of his machine had spoken the truth.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 Albert was very much cast down. A more intelligent man would have had a hunch \expndtw1 as to what was wrong. Albert had only a hunch that he was not very good at hunches \expndtw5 and would never be. Seeing no way out, he fabricated a machine and named it \expndtw0 Hunchy.\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 In most ways this was the worst machine he ever made. In building it he tried \expndtw2 to express something of his unease for the future. It was an awkward thing in mind and mechanism, a misfit.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Albert's more intelligent machines gathered around and hooted at him while he \expndtw4 put it together.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 "Boy! Are you lost!" they taunted. "That thing is a primitive! To draw its power \expndtw-1 from the ambient! We talked you into throwing that away twenty years ago and setting \expndtw3 up coded power for all of us."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 "Uh\emdash someday there may be social disturbances and all centers of power seized," \expndtw2 Albert stammered. "But Hunchy would be able to operate if the whole world were \expndtw3 wiped smooth."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-278\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "It isn't even tuned to our information matrix," they jibed. "It's worse than Poor Charles. That stupid thing practically starts from scratch."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "Maybe there'll be a new kind of itch for it," said Albert.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "It's not even housebroken!" the urbane machines shouted their indignation. "Look at that! Some sort of primitive lubrication all over the floor."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Remembering my childhood, I sympathize," Albert said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "What's it good for?" they demanded.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Ah\emdash it gets hunches," Albert mumbled.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Duplication!" they shouted. "That's all you're good for yourself, and not very \expndtw3 good at that. We suggest an election to replace you as\emdash pardon our laughter\emdash the \expndtw2 head of these enterprises."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Boss, I've got a hunch how we can block them there," the unfinished Hunchy \expndtw0 whispered.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-288\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "They're bluffing," Albert whispered back. "My first logic machine taught me never to make anything that I can't unmake. I've got them there and they know it. I \expndtw3 wish I could think up things like that myself."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Maybe there will come an awkward time and I will be good for something," \expndtw1 Hunchy said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\scaps Only once, and \scaps0 that rather late in life, did a sort of honesty flare up in Albert. He \expndtw1 did one thing (and it was a dismal failure) on his own. That was the night of the year \expndtw2 of the double millennium when Albert was presented with the Finnerty-Hochmann \expndtw1 Trophy, the highest award that the intellectual world could give. Albert was certainly \expndtw3 an odd choice for it, but it had been noticed that almost every basic invention for \expndtw2 thirty years could be traced back to him or to the devices with which he had sur\-rounded himself.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-283\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 You know the trophy. Atop it was Eurema, the synthetic Greek goddess of in\-\expndtw0 vention, with arms spread as if she would take flight. Below this was a stylized brain \expndtw1 cut away to show the convoluted cortex. And below this was the coat of arms of the \expndtw2 Academicians: Ancient Scholar rampant (argent); the Anderson Analyzer sinister \expndtw1 (gules); the Mondeman Space-Drive dexter (vair). It was a fine work by Groben, his \expndtw4 ninth period.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 Albert had a speech composed for him by his speech-writing machine, but for some reason he did not use it. He went on his own, and that was disaster. He got to \expndtw3 his feet when he was introduced, and he stuttered and spoke nonsense!\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Ah\emdash only the sick oyster produces nacre," he said, and they all gaped at him. What sort of beginning for a speech was that? "Or do I have the wrong creature?" \expndtw-1 Albert asked weakly.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Eurema doesn't look like that!" Albert gawked out and pointed suddenly at the\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 trophy. "No, no, that isn't her at all. Eurema walks backward and is blind. And her mother is a brainless hulk."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 Everybody was watching him with pained expression.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "Nothing rises without a leaven," Albert tried to explain, "but the yeast is itself \expndtw-1 a fungus and a disease. You be regularizers all, splendid and supreme! But you cannot \expndtw3 live without the irregulars. You will die, and who will tell you that you are dead? \expndtw-1 When there are no longer any deprived or insufficient, \i who will invent? \i0 What will you \expndtw2 do when there is none of us detectives left? Who will leaven your lump then?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "Are you unwell?" the master of ceremonies asked him quietly. "Should you not \expndtw3 make an end to it? People will understand."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 "Of course I'm unwell. Always have been," Albert said. "What good would I be \expndtw2 otherwise? You set the ideal that all should be healthy and well adjusted. No! No! Were we all well adjusted, we would ossify and die. The world is kept healthy only by some of the unhealthy minds lurking in it. The first implement made by man was \expndtw3 not a scraper or celt or stone knife. It was a crutch, and it wasn't devised by a hale man."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 "Perhaps you should rest," a functionary said in a low voice, for this sort of rambling nonsense talk had never been heard at an awards dinner before.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Know you," said Albert, "that it is not the fine bulls and wonderful cattle who \expndtw-2 make the new paths. Only a crippled calf makes a new path. In everything that survives \expndtw2 there must be an element of the incongruous. Hey, you know the woman who said, \expndtw4 'My husband is incongruous, but I never liked Washington in the summertime.' "\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 Everybody gazed at him in stupor.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-278\slmult0\cf1 "That's the first joke I ever made," Albert said lamely. "My joke-making machine \expndtw3 makes them a lot better than I do." He paused and gaped, and gulped a big breath.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Dolts!" he croaked out fiercely then. "What will you do for dolts when the last \expndtw1 of us is gone? How will you survive without us?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 Albert had finished. He gaped and forgot to close his mouth. They led him back \expndtw0 to his seat. His publicity machine explained that Albert was tired from overwork, and \expndtw3 then that machine passed around copies of the speech that Albert was supposed to \expndtw-1 have given.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw3 It had been an unfortunate episode. How noisome it is that the innovators are \expndtw2 never great men, and that the great men are never good for anything but just being great men.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\scaps In that year \scaps0 a decree went forth from Caesar that a census of the whole country \expndtw-1 should be taken. The decree was from Cesare Panebianco, the President of the country. \expndtw2 It was the decimal year proper for the census, and there was nothing unusual about \expndtw0 the decree. Certain provisions, however, were made for taking a census of the drifters \expndtw3 and decrepits who were usually missed, to examine them and to see why they were\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw1 so. It was in the course of this that Albert was picked up. If any man ever looked like \expndtw2 a drifter and decrepit, it was Albert.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 Albert was herded in with other derelicts, set down at a table, and asked tortuous \expndtw-1 questions. As:\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 "What is your name?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 He almost muffed that one, but he rallied and answered, "Albert."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "What time is it by that clock?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1 They had him in his old weak spot. Which hand was which? He gaped and didn't \expndtw-2 answer.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw2 "Can you read?" they asked him.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Not without my\emdash " Albert began. "I don't have with me my\emdash No, I can't read \expndtw-1 very well by myself."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "Try."\cf0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 They gave him a paper to mark up with true and false questions. Albert marked \expndtw0 them all true, believing that he would have half of them right. But they were all false. \expndtw2 The regularized people are partial to falsehood. Then they gave him a supply-the-\expndtw3 word test on proverbs.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "------- \expndtw4 is the best policy" didn't mean a thing to him. He couldn't remember\cf0\expndtw0  \cf1\expndtw3 the names of the companies that he had his own policies with.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-15 "A ------ \expndtw4 in time saves nine" contained more mathematics than Albert could \expndtw0 handle.\cf0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1 "There appear to be six unknowns," he told himself, "and only one positive value, \expndtw1 nine. The equating verb 'saves' is a vague one. I cannot solve this equation. I am not \expndtw4 even sure that it is an equation. If only I had with me my\emdash "\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 But he hadn't any of his gadgets or machines with him. He was on his own. He \expndtw0 left half a dozen other proverb fill-ins blank. Then he saw a chance to recoup. Nobody \expndtw3 is so dumb as not to know one answer if enough questions are asked.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "--------- \expndtw3 is the mother of invention," it said.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw1 "Stupidity," Albert wrote in his weird ragged hand. Then he sat back in triumph. \expndtw3 "I know that Eurema and her mother," he snickered. "Man, how I do know them!"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 But they marked him wrong on that one too. He had missed every answer to \expndtw-1 every test. They began to fix him a ticket to a progressive booby hatch where he might \expndtw3 learn to do something with his hands, his head being hopeless.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 A couple of Albert's urbane machines came down and got him out of it. They explained that, while he was a drifter and a derelict, yet he was a rich drifter and \expndtw3 derelict, and that he was even a man of some note.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw4 "He doesn't look it, but he really is\emdash pardon our laughter\emdash a man of some importance," one of the fine machines explained. "He has to be told to close his \expndtw-1 mouth after he has yawned, but for all that he is the winner of the Finnerty-Hochmann \expndtw2 Trophy. We will be responsible for him."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-2\scaps Albert was miserable \scaps0 as his fine machines took him out, especially when they asked \expndtw4 that he walk three or four steps behind them and not seem to be with them. They \expndtw2 gave him some pretty rough banter and turned him into a squirming worm of a man. \expndtw4 Albert left them and went to a little hide-out he kept.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 "I'll blow my crawfishing brains out," he swore. "The humiliation is more than I can bear. Can't do it myself, though. I'll have to have it done."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 He set to work building a device in his hide-out.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw4 "What you doing, boss?" Hunchy asked him. "I had a hunch you'd come here and start building something."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw6 "I'm building a machine to blow my pumpkin-picking brains out," Albert \expndtw3 shouted. "I'm too yellow to do it myself."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb10\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3 "Boss, I got a hunch there's something better to do. Let's have some fun."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Don't believe I know how to," Albert said thoughtfully. "I built a fun machine \expndtw1 once to do it for me. He had a real revel till he flew apart, but he never seemed to do \expndtw3 anything for me."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "This fun will be for you and me, boss. Consider the world spread out. What is \expndtw-6 it?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "It's a world too fine for me to live in any longer," Albert said. "Everything and \expndtw3 all the people are perfect, and all alike. They're at the top of the heap. They've won \expndtw1 it all and arranged it all neatly. There's no place for a clutter-up like me in the world. \expndtw3 So I get out."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "Boss, I've got a hunch that you're seeing it wrong. You've got better eyes than that. Look again, real canny, at it. Now what do you see?"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sl-274\slmult0\cf1 "Hunchy, Hunchy, is that possible? Is that really what it is? I wonder why I never \expndtw3 noticed it before. That's the way of it, though, now that I look closer.\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1\expndtw-1 "Six billion patsies waiting to be took! Six billion patsies without a defense of any \expndtw0 kind! A couple of guys out for some fun, man, they could mow them down like fields \expndtw3 of Albert-Improved Concho Wheat!"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\cf1 "Boss, I've got a hunch that this is what I was made for. The world sure had been \expndtw3 getting stuffy. Let's tie into it and eat off the top layer. Man, we can cut a swath."\cf0\expndtw0\par
\pard\cbpat2\fi450\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2 "We'll inaugurate a new era!" Albert gloated. "We'll call it the Turning of the \expndtw4 Worm. We'll have fun, Hunchy. We'll gobble them up like goobers. How come I \expndtw1 never saw it like that before? Six billion patsies!"\cf0\expndtw0\par
\par
\par
\pard\cbpat2\ri-1800\sb5\sl-274\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\scaps The twenty-first century \scaps0 began on this rather odd note.\cf0\expndtw0\par
}
 